alright hey I'm back for video number
two on my channel today I want to talk
about my personal and Medical School
interviews like I said my screen this
video i got your views from bristol
king's constant but I only ended up
going to personal things I just want to
talk about my experiences when I went
there so the how I was feeling and any
tips for before during and after the
interview so let's start with Bristol
because I was the first one that I got I
was in Toronto at the time so I had to
fly to Bristol I wanted to come here a
couple of days early I went to Bristol
the night before this was my first
medical school interview in over four
years
I really really wanted to get in terms
of running all over the face and that's
only natural one of the biggest tips I
can give you guys is just practice
practice practice the more you practice
talking in front of someone the more you
practice talking to someone the easier
becomes so the morning of the interview
woke up super early I think like two and
a half hours in advance actual interview
time I get to sort of the big hole I'm
during that time really it was a game of
keeping myself calm trying to keep my
nerves down trying to just focus on the
positives I'm gonna do my best whatever
happens happens
prepared as much as I possibly can I
found this was a good opportunity to
start making some small talk with with
other participants just to sort of take
the edge off then began the interview so
whenever you were getting your answers
if you wanted to you could hear the
other students answers when you're
actually giving the interview it's
really hard to focus when while other
people are doing wouldn't recommend
trying to listen to other people the
very first question that I has a written
communication station I was given a
picture and I was asked to describe what
I saw and make some inferences on what
was present but it was all handwritten
importantly for a station like this it
doesn't really matter what your
handwriting is like handwriting is kind
of like a check mark is their
handwriting legible or is it not focused
on actually depicting in a clear manner
what you can see in front of you they're
giving your notes to someone who hasn't
seen this picture at all if there's like
a wound let's say not enough to say that
there's a circle you have to describe
the size of the circle is it smooth
there's a half jagged edges what's in
the middle of the circle what's towards
the outside is there anything
surrounding it what are the different
colors that you see you really have to
paint a full picture for the person
reading your notes instead of writing
out like a paragraph of what I was
seeing I
fit into bullet points today was
probably about six minutes per MMI
station so there was quite a lot of time
there and they tell you that once you're
finished with the station if you and
your interviewer don't have anything
else to talk about you don't have to you
can just stop right there or you can
talk about anything rounded that you
want another interview station ask me
about my work experience that was a
really easy one for me because I had
obviously prepared very well and I knew
exactly what I wouldn't say and what I
wanted to talk about I really quickly
gave summary of what I did important
actions that I took and what I learned
in those experiences always really
important to talk about what you've
learned it's not as important say I
volunteered at an elderly home as it is
to say that you understood how to talk
to people who were of a different age
than you maybe you learn to explain
complex topics in simple ways for
yourself in an uncomfortable position by
to you know move past some previous
biases that you had or capable of
dealing with people of different
diversities ethnicities and backgrounds
than you all of these things are where
you're trying to get across in your
stories about your work experience these
are the important things that the
interviewers are looking for when you
say something like I'm really dedicated
I'm a hard worker you need to back that
up you need to have evidence but what
did you do to show that you were
dedicated maybe you had a part-time job
while you were studying in high school
maybe you undertook an extra day loved
you need to show examples and prove that
the interviewers they're not there to
catch you on they don't want to find
fault in your responses or in your
answers they want you to succeed they
want you to tell them everything you
possibly can about yourself always try
and share and give as much information
as you can because it's mmm I know that
any one station that you perform badly
on doesn't affect any of the other
station each interviewer only knows you
for that single station that they're
doing they don't know if you completely
screwed up the last station or if you
completely aced it so now let's talk
about kings and Kings to the school that
I ended up choosing to go to and then
that's why I'm studying now I'm a
graduate student on the undergraduate
course I'm currently 22 by the way Kings
Kings King's College London so the
King's interview room was quite small
like saying things I remember a lot more
bumps I wrote down all of the questions
for Kings there were seven MMI stations
for seven minutes
each the whole experience lasted about
an hour it really wasn't that long the
very first station that I sat in was
with an older man and he showed me a
immediately on you that this was a graph
interpretation question the graph is
super super simple okay they're not
trying to trick you if they ask you to
describe the graph then you describe the
graph if they ask you to interpret the
graph then you interpret it don't do
both at the same time or makes one up
with the other be very specific as to
what you did my second station was an
ethical scenario they'll commonly be
about to console your friend in an
uncomfortable situation for them or
perhaps ood the right thing when you see
that a friend or a co-worker is doing
something that they shouldn't do a third
station that I had I was handed an image
that was very very killed let's say it
was like a very crowded beach the
interview asked me to just describe this
picture as if I wasn't sitting in the
room the important things in a station
like this is to be really clear and
concise in your communication they're
not looking for you to just blabber out
every single thing that you see in the
picture example if you start counting
all the people on the beach that's
probably not a good idea
however giving an estimate of how many
people you think on is on the beach is
probably a good idea also things like
time of day general colors the general
layout so is it a like clothes Cove is
it a long beach in the sand yellow is
the Sun red are there big rocks are
there lots of umbrella do you see any
shops a block is describing as much as
you can about the image but clearly and
concisely you want to mention the most
important biggest things first and sort
of move your way down into into
specifics some of the other questions
that I was asked were the classic ones
that you would expect right so why do
you want to be a doctor because a lot of
students are going to give rehearsed
answers of the most common explanation
the important thing is how you back it
up with your own experiences how you
back it up with your own stories to show
and to prove that this is actually what
you want to do if I say okay I want to
be a doctor because I want to help
people that's probably one of the most
common most workers and given answers
for this scenario in
interview but what is helping people
really need I can say that when I was in
Toronto I volunteered at the Canadian
Center for victims of torture and
through that I helped refugees integrate
into Canadian society I helped
facilitate English lessons
I helped monitor mental physical and
social skills over time to see if the
students were things are grading there's
an example of me helping people but it's
backed up by evidence is backed up by
it's something that I actually did and
that's so much better for the
interviewer because they can say okay
this person really does want to help
people so I'm gonna talk about some
general interview tips before you
actually go to your aniline
believe it or not you do need to do a
lot of practice here's what I did I
scoured the internet for hundreds of
questions under each question I would
type on my response what I thought was a
good answer importantly addressing and
including my own experiences my own
stories and how I learned and moved on
from those once I had my paragraph or my
response to a question that's when I
would begin practice pumkin having typed
out a response is so so so different
than actually saying it out loud
I tried recording myself and listening
back to the recording trying to see one
of the budgeting movements that I would
do or if I mentioned too many ohms or
atoms in my sentences stuff like that by
far the most important thing the biggest
thing I can recommend for you to do is
to actually meet up with other people
doing interviews and talk to each other
it was the perfect way to practice
speaking in front of other people to
practice talking in front of strangers
get all of the anxieties out the way all
the stresses yeah those were my
experiences in both Bristol and Kings on
a speedboat at this time it's extremely
nerve-wracking but looking about running
it was a lot of fun in the end I chose
Kings that's why I am now and I'm having
lots of fun on the course subscribe to
my channel if you feel like it I like
button if you enjoyed the video see you
guys
[Music]